The use of corpora and corpus linguistic methods in language testing research is increasing at an accelerated pace. The growing body of language testing research that uses corpus linguistic data is a testament to their utility in test development and validation. Although there are many reasons to be optimistic about the future of using corpus data in language testing, the convergence of these two fields introduces uncharted waters that should be traversed carefully to ensure that high standards of methodological rigor are maintained. The objectives of this paper are as follows: (1) to describe and evaluate the ways corpora and corpus data have been used in language testing to date; and (2) to offer recommendations for best practices to encourage rigorous and appropriate corpus linguistic methods for language testing purposes. This is accomplished with the aid of examples from papers in this special issue, as well as other previous work in this area. The future holds great promise for a useful methodological synergy between corpus linguistics and language testing. The choices researchers make as they navigate the uncharted and challenging waters that lie ahead will ultimately determine whether that potential is fully realized.
Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (10 December 1815 – 27 November 1852), born Augusta Ada Byron and now commonly known as Ada Lovelace, was an English mathematician and writer chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's early mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. Her notes on the engine include what is recognised as the first algorithm intended to be carried out by a machine. Because of this, she is often described as the world's first computer programmer. Jetzt probieren wir umlaute aus. öfters äpfel kälber
öma
Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (10 December 1815 – 27 November 1852), born Augusta Ada Byron and now commonly known as Adaö Lovelace, was an English mathematician and writer chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's early mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. Her notes on the engine include what is recognised as the first algorithm intended to be carried out by a machine. Because of this, she is often described as the world's first computer programmer.

Lovelace was born 10 December 1815 as the only legitimate child of the poet Lord Byron and his wife Anne Isabella Byron. All Byron's other children were born out of wedlock. Byron separated from his wife a month after Ada was born and left England forever four months later, eventually dying of disease in the Greek War of Independence when Ada was eight years old. Ada's mother remained bitter at Lord Byron and promoted Ada's interest in mathematics and logic in an effort to prevent her from developing what she saw as the insanity seen in her father, but Ada remained interested in him despite this (and was, upon her eventual death, buried next to him at her request).

Ada described her approach as "poetical science" and herself as an "Analyst (& Metaphysician)". As a young adult, her mathematical talents led her to an ongoing working relationship and friendship with fellow British mathematician Charles Babbage, and in particular Babbage's work on the Analytical Engine. Between 1842 and 1843, she translated an article by Italian military engineer Luigi Menabrea on the engine, which she supplemented with an elaborate set of notes of her own, simply called Notes. These notes contain what many consider to be the first computer program—that is, an algorithm designed to be carried out by a machine. Lovelace's notes are important in the early history of computers. She also developed a vision on the capability of computers to go beyond mere calculating or number-crunching while others, including Babbage himself, focused only on those capabilities. Ada's mind-set of "poetical science" led her to ask basic questions about the Analytical Engine (as shown in her notes) examining how individuals and society relate to technology as a collaborative tool.

==Biography==

===Childhood===
Ada Lovelace was born Augusta Ada Byron on 10 December 1815, the child of the poet George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron, and Anne Isabella "Annabella" Milbanke, Baroness Byron.  George Byron expected his baby to be "the glorious boy" and was disappointed that his wife gave birth to a girl.  Augusta was named after Byron's half-sister, Augusta Leigh, and was called "Ada" by Byron himself.

On 16 January 1816, Annabella, at George's behest, left for her parents' home at Kirkby Mallory taking one-month-old Ada with her.  Although English law gave fathers full custody of their children in cases of separation, Byron made no attempt to claim his parental rights but did request that his sister keep him informed of Ada's welfare.  On 21 April, Byron signed the Deed of Separation, although very reluctantly, and left England for good a few days later.  Aside from an acrimonious separation, Annabella continually throughout her life made allegations about Byron's immoral behavior.  This set of events made Ada famous in Victorian society. Byron did not have a relationship with his daughter, and never saw her again. He died in 1824 when she was eight years old. Her mother was the only significant parental figure in her life. Ada was not allowed to view any portrait of her father until her twentieth birthday.  Her mother became Baroness Wentworth in her own right in 1856.

Annabella did not have a close relationship with the young Ada, and often left her in the care of her own mother Judith, Hon. Lady Milbanke, who doted on her grandchild.  However, due to societal attitudes of the time—which favored the husband in any separation, with the welfare of any child acting as mitigation—Annabella had to present herself as a loving mother to the rest of society. This included writing anxious letters to Lady Milbanke about Ada's welfare, with a cover note saying to retain the letters in case she had to use them to show maternal concern.  In one letter to Lady Milbanke, she referred to Ada as "it": "I talk to it for your satisfaction, not my own, and shall be very glad when you have it under your own."  In her teenaged years, several of her mother's close friends watched Ada for any sign of moral deviation. Ada dubbed these observers the Furies, and later complained that they exaggerated and invented stories about her.

Ada was often ill, beginning in early childhood. At the age of eight, she experienced headaches that obscured her vision.  In June 1829, she was paralyzed after a bout of measles. She was subjected to continuous bed rest for nearly a year, which may have extended her period of disability. By 1831, she was able to walk with crutches.

Despite being ill Ada developed her mathematical and technological skills.  When Ada was twelve years old, this future "Lady Fairy", as Charles Babbage affectionately called her, decided that she wanted to fly.  Ada went about the project methodically, thoughtfully, with imagination and passion.  Her first step in February 1828, was to construct wings.  She investigated different material and sizes.  She considered various materials for the wings; paper, oilsilk, wires and feathers.  She examined the anatomy of birds to determine the right proportion between the wings and the body.  She decided to write a book Flyology illustrating, with plates, some of her findings.  She decided what equipment she would need, for example, a compass, to "cut across the country by the most direct road", so that she could surmount mountains, rivers and valleys.  Her final step was to integrate steam with the "art of flying".

In early 1833, Ada had an affair with a tutor and, after being caught, tried to elope with him. The tutor's relatives recognized her and contacted her mother. Annabella and her friends covered the incident up to prevent a public scandal.

Ada never met her younger half-sister, Allegra Byron, daughter of Lord Byron and Claire Clairmont, who died in 1822 at the age of five. She did, however, have some contact with Elizabeth Medora Leigh, the daughter of Byron's half-sister Augusta Leigh. Augusta Leigh purposely avoided Ada as much as possible when she was introduced at Court.

===Adult years===
Lovelace developed a strong relationship with her tutor Mary Somerville. She had a strong respect and affection for Somerville. and the two of them corresponded for many years. Other acquaintances included Andrew Crosse, Sir David Brewster, Charles Wheatstone, Charles Dickens and Michael Faraday.

By 1834, Ada was a regular at Court and started attending various events. She danced often and was able to charm many people, and was described by most people as being dainty.  However, John Hobhouse, Lord Byron's friend, was the exception and he described her as, "...a large, coarse-skinned young woman but with something of my friend's features, particularly the mouth."  This description followed their meeting on 24 February 1834 in which Ada made it clear to Hobhouse that she did not like him, probably due to the influence of her mother, which led her to dislike all of her father's friends. This first impression was not to last, and they later became friends.

On 8 July 1835 she married William King, 8th Baron King, becoming Baroness King. Their residence was a large estate at Ockham Park, in Ockham, Surrey, along with another estate on Loch Torridon and a home in London.  They spent their honeymoon at Worthy Manor in Ashley Combe near Porlock Weir, Somerset.  The Manor had been built as a hunting lodge in 1799 and was improved by King in preparation for their honeymoon.  It later became their summer retreat and was further improved during this time.  The house was built on a small plateau in woodland overlooking the Bristol Channel and surrounded by terraced gardens in the Italianate style.

They had three children: Byron born 12 May 1836, Anne Isabella (called Annabella, later Lady Anne Blunt) born 22 September 1837 and Ralph Gordon born 2 July 1839. Immediately after the birth of Annabella, Lady King experienced "...a tedious and suffering illness, which took months to cure."  In 1838, her husband became Earl of Lovelace. Thus, she was styled "The Right Honourable the Countess of Lovelace" for most of her married life. In 1843-4, her mother, Anabella, assigned William Benjamin Carpenter to teach Ada's children, and to act as a 'moral' instructor for Ada.  He quickly fell for her, and encouraged her to express any frustrated affections, claiming that his marriage meant he'd never act in an "unbecoming" manner. When it became clear that Carpenter was trying to start an affair, Ada cut it off.

In 1841, Lovelace and Medora Leigh (daughter of Lord Byron's half-sister Augusta Leigh) were told by Ada's mother that her father was also Medora's father.  On 27 February 1841, Ada wrote to her mother: "I am not in the least astonished. In fact you merely confirm what I have for years and years felt scarcely a doubt about, but should have considered it most improper in me to hint to you that I in any way suspected."  Ada did not blame the incestuous relationship on Byron, but instead blamed Augusta Leigh: "I fear she is more inherently wicked than he ever was."  This did not prevent Ada's mother from attempting to destroy her daughter's image of her father, but instead drove her to attack Byron's image with greater intensity.

In the 1840s, Ada flirted with scandals: firstly from a relaxed relationship with men who were not her husband, which led to rumours of affairs—and secondly, her love of gambling. The gambling led to her forming a syndicate with male friends, and an ambitious attempt in 1851 to create a mathematical model for successful large bets. This went disastrously wrong, leaving her thousands of pounds in debt and being blackmailed by one of the syndicate, forcing her to admit the mess to her husband.  Ada also had a shadowy, possibly illicit relationship with Andrew Crosse's son John from 1844 onwards.  Few hard facts are known about this because Crosse destroyed most of their correspondence after her death as part of a legal agreement. However, the relationship was strong enough that she bequeathed him the only heirlooms her father had personally left to her.  During her final illness, Ada would panic at the idea of John Crosse being kept from visiting her.

